Hello! Thank you for visiting my profile. My name is Robert Koifman. I specialize in communication technologies and IoT. If these areas align with your interests, we can engage in discussions and knowledge sharing. For the last few years, I’ve been working on [Softnet Free](https://github.com/softnet-free), a platform that provides TCP/IP-enabled devices with a medium for remote communication over the Internet. The platform is freely available under the Apache 2.0 license. If you are a DIY developer, you can utilize it for enabling remote communication with your microcontroller. If you are a startup developing an Internet-enabled IoT product, Softnet Free can help you save a lot of costs. And if you're a device manufacturer, you can consider using this platform for your products. Visit the project's [home page](https://github.com/softnet-free) to learn more about Softnet Free. "[The concept of Softnet Free](https://github.com/orgs/Softnet-Free/discussions/2)" reveales the concept of the platform. What I want from you is your comments, offers and contributions. You are welcome to [discussions](https://github.com/orgs/Softnet-Free/discussions), where you can ask questions, explore examples, etc.

The Internet of Things is essentially a concept that describes a system of interconnected devices that use the Internet for communication. But, oddly enough, one of the primary challenges of IoT is precisely ensuring this Internet-based communication between devices. Modern TCP/IP-enabled devices, even those built on low-cost microcontrollers, might be powerful enough to implement on-device business logic and communicate with clients over IP networks. Typically, they operate in dynamic IP environments, which pose significant connectivity challenges. In most cases, interaction with such devices is impossible without the use of a specially designed communication platform. In fact, along with connectivity, there is a set of additional tasks that an IoT platform is assumed to solve such as security, access control, device administration, shared access to devices, etc.  

In the world of IoT, when you start implementing your idea, the first question is which platform aligns with the requirements of your project. Ready-to-use platforms may already exist for some popular applications, for example, platforms designed for controlling drones over 4G networks. But new ideas in IoT are born all the time, and possibly you'll have to adapt some kind of a general purpose platform for your product or even create one from scratch. For simple applications, there are plenty of platforms that utilize messaging protocols like MQTT, XMPP, etc., while advanced platforms may utilize peer-to-peer streaming protocols like WebRTC. However, it may be crucial whether the platform is compatible with resource restricted hardware and operating systems that run on this hardware such as FreeRTOS, Zephyr, RIOT, Contiki and others.  

Typically, device manufacturers create a dedicated cloud platform to provide their products with networking capabilities. Such a platform can support vertical communication of devices for cloud-specific operations like data storage, analytics, and AI. The platform can also support horizontal communication or direct communication between the devices themselves, bypassing the cloud server. Surprisingly, it turned out that solutions to the networking issues related to device-to-device interaction, including connectivity, security, access control, management and others can be organized, structured and implemented within a single unified platform. This platform can be used on its own, as well as integrated into application-specific cloud platforms. It can also run as a service with a unified API to serve other platforms that require inter-device networking capabilities for embedded systems. These considerations form the basis of the Softnet Free concept.  

The IoT landscape is incredibly diverse, offering a plethora of technical solutions. However, there's a strong demand from both IoT developers and users for the incorporation of well-established software technologies and user experience principles commonly seen in traditional software products. Nowadays, HTTP-based technologies form the backbone of the most prevalent IT ecosystem. The RESTful communication pattern has emerged as the de facto standard for client-server applications. Internet services typically implement browser-based interfaces for users. Many application layer protocols built on top of HTTP. Therefore, IoT developers are determined to adapt these practices to IoT/IIoT. In the realm of embedded systems, numerous TCP/IP solutions encompass HTTP and WebSocket protocols. Some IoT developers have also a temptation to embrace modern front-end technologies such as React and Angular. Apart from HTTP and related products, other prominent technologies such as video streaming (RTSP, HLS, SRT, etc.), remote device management (SSH, MOSH, etc.) and others are also in demand in IoT/IIoT. However, the primary challenge in adapting these traditional technologies lies in addressing persistent issues related to broken Internet connectivity between devices, as well as concerns pertaining to security, access control, and device management. It turned out that using the core mechanisms of Softnet Free, communication protocols with built-in authentication support can be seamlessly integrated into the IoT/IIoT domain.


<!--
**Robert-Koifman/robert-koifman** is a ✨ _special_ ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.

Here are some ideas to get you started:

- 🔭 I’m currently working on ...
- 🌱 I’m currently learning ...
- 👯 I’m looking to collaborate on ...
- 🤔 I’m looking for help with ...
- 💬 Ask me about ...
- 📫 How to reach me: ...
- 😄 Pronouns: ...
- ⚡ Fun fact: ...
-->
